In the kitchen on 806 Thomas Street with Mr. and
Mrs. Brazil. Now you say something. That is
correct. Okay.
First, Mr. Brazil, would you, for the sake of
someone in the future who might not know either of
us and know about your background, would you
summarize your growing up years and your
background and your family, where and so forth,
before you came to Texas A&M? I was born and raised
in Houston County, the county seats Crockett, and
went to a rural school
ten years and went to Crockett High School two
years. And in view of the
athletic situation, I'm glad I went to the high
school in Crockett because it gave me a better
opportunity to walk on here as an athlete. And
there was very few paved roads, and it was
difficult to get to school. In fact, part of the
time when the roads were not too bad, school about
ten miles away in a 1924 Model T when there was only
seven miles of pavement in Houston County. What
did your family do for a living? They were farmers
and ranchers. What was the cash crop? Cotton and a
little extra corn that the mules didn't eat. And
how many in your senior class at Crockett High
School? I believe thirty-one. Do you have any idea
how many of them went to college? I would just
roughly guess half of them would be my guess. Why
did you come to A&M instead of going to some other
place? Well, that's an interesting story. My
senior year, I don't know whether the basketball
season was over or it was before the season,
Anyway, I was done pretty well, was captain of the
team, and I had a brother in the class of 30. And he's
now deceased. He lived only nine years. He was at
A&M as a senior, lived in the shacks down behind Law
Hall. And he said, Arkansas is coming to town to
play two games, Monday and Tuesday night, and I
think you ought to see them. It'd be good for you.
Well, up to that point, I'd never missed a day in
school alive. So he hadn't get special permission
from my parents to miss school the first time. So I
got somebody to carry me to Palestine in the mud by
the way of Slocum because the road was blocked to
get there otherwise and caught a train. come to
Hearn. And the delay was in Palestine, and they got
to Hearn. The other train was gone. But there's
three or four boys on the train from Palestine. One
of them was in my brother's class, and we got
acquainted. He said, the college station train
will be gone when we get there, but we'll get you to
the campus. So we walked through about a mile of
construction work and got out on the highway.
We took the order in which who had the earliest
classes to hitchhike a ride, and everybody got to
campus by eight o'clock. And he wanted me to see the
Arkansas series, which I did. Now, this is
basketball? Basketball. In those days, they
played two games every other year rather than home
and home in a year. And he didn't even go with me
because it was pouring down rain. to go from the
Shacks to the G. Raleigh White D-wear. So they
dressed me up in an old campaign hat and a slicker.
Everybody had insignias and three things painted
on the back of these old slickers. And they sent me
on to the game. And it was not very cold. They said,
why don't you go barefooted? So I went across now
Simpson Drill Field barefooted and got to the game
with somebody else's coupon book and the OD on the
gate said, you can't come in here barefooted. And
so I got him off the side and told him what my
situation was and he said, well, wait till the
traffic gets a little lighter. and you come on to
the door and I'll pass you in. So that was a really
interesting experience of that night. But seeing
the campus during the day while he was in class, and
about a third of that was sent in the veterinary
medicine display of old Dr. Francis, I decided I
should be over here too.
So, he graduated in 30 and I come in 31, September
31. Was that your only visit to the campus before
coming to enroll? No, in 1927 I had a bachelor
cousin who had tickets for the Thanksgiving game.
And he had a date. He was never married. He had a date
and had a third ticket, and my brother had gotten
for him. And he said, I want you to ride College
Station with me to the football game. So I come to
see the Thanksgiving game in 1927 with them, and I
still have my ticket untorn. And don't ask too many
questions about how I got in without tearing my
ticket. And that was my first trip. It was during
Joel Hunt and Herschel Burgess's day. And so that
was my first trip, and this week's visit was my
second trip. And I thought, well, if it was good
enough for him, it's good enough for me. All right,
then when you come to enroll? When? Well, describe
that also. When was it? Describe that trip. I would
say about mid-December, September 1931. I came to
school alone in the same 1924 Model T Ford out of
Houston County to get to Madison County, which is
now Highway 21, across the river on a ferry boat.
The Navasota? No, the Trinity. Oh, the Trinity,
yes. The Trinity River, and come on over and they
said, you can't have a car. I said, what are you
going to do with it?" And there was a Houston County
clubhouse that Dr. Dan Russell started down about
the Boyette community, and they said, you can
leave your car down here, and we won't know who it
belonged to. So I left my car there, and I think I
carried it home Thanksgiving and left it. But
that's the way I got here, and I joined the Company G
infantry. Only for one reason, there was two or
three seniors and one junior from Crockett in
Company G, and so they hung around the rotunda of
the academic building during the restoration.
When it comes to the ROCC assignment, they stepped
up to the sergeant's desk and said, we'd like to
have this young fella in Company G infantry. And
that's the way I got in Company G infantry, and I
thought it was a good outfit. My senior year, when I
was a freshman, Tiger Teague was our company
commander. He was company commander when you were
a senior? No, when I was a freshman. When you were a
freshman. Oh, really? Well, now let's sidetrack
on him. Describe Tiger Teague as a student. Well,
him being a senior and I being a freshman, He
graduated on time, I think, maybe one extra
semester, because he worked part-time in the
postal system as a mail sorter. On the campus or at
the Northgate Post Office? No, the Northgate Post
Office wasn't there. It was a little old building
down close to where the Grove is now. Small
building where they handled all the mail. But that
was a federal post office. Yeah, a federal post
office. And he sorted mail every night till about
1030. And he'd walk across the drill field from his
post office job to his dormitory, which was
Brazil. I was in room 105 as well, first and next to
the entrance on the bottom floor, west side.
Crossing that drill field, he could observe half
of his unit, whether they were studying or not.
What kind of a CO was he? He was a great CO. He had
everybody's interest at heart and saw that you had
study time undisturbed. But if you were not taking
advantage of his study time when he was walking
across the drill field, he had a private session
with you later. Don't I remember him as not very
tall? No, he wasn't very tall, but one of the best
softball pitchers the world has ever known.
Really? He softball pitcher when he was in the
legislature with an artificial foot, and he lost
one of his ankles in the World War II. And that was
mended, and he had a short shoe and a sharp corner on
the bottom so he could walk, but he still pitched
baseball. And his legislative team won with him as
a pitcher. But he was a good commander, and there
was three other seniors in the outfit from
Crockett. So I had a good tie there, and they helped
me a lot. Let's see. Oh, when you came to enroll,
what did you bring with you? in terms of clothing
and anything else? I don't remember exactly what I
brought, but they gave us a list of what to bring,
and it wasn't much more than they needed because
you wore your uniform all the time. There was no
time you could be without your uniform on certain
occasions, any class or all classes as it is now.
Where did you get the money to pay for that first
year? My parents had set aside that for me, and
since my brother enjoyed it so much and graduated,
they were well pleased. They did not have a big
operation, but they provided enough for my older
brother and my younger sister to get a college
education. Did it seem to you that you had a choice
about whether you would go to college or did your
parents, were they determined you were going to
go? No, I think they strictly left it up to me
because I had to make the choice. Do you remember
what that first year cost? No, but it was very
little compared to what it was now. I worked in the
dining hall of Sabisa as a student waiter my last
three years. But not the first year? No, not the
first year, and that come about because of the
generosity of Coach Frank Anderson, the track
coach, in the intramural track meet in the spring.
I won three events, the high hurdles, the low
hurdles, and the high jump. And about a week later,
I ran into Colonel Anderson on the campus, and he
said, I observed your intramural track meet, and
I'd like for you to finish out the rest of the track
season with the freshman track team. they did not
go anywhere and compete with anybody. It was all
called telegraphic. And they'd run against
Tarleton and Arlington and through a few other
junior colleges and then compare their results by
telephone or wire. And so I went out and He had more
good hurdlers than he needed, so he concentrated
me on high jump. And I had an old system that most
rural kids had. They called it a scissor. And he
said, if you'll let me, I'll improve you from now to
next year nearly a foot. And I said, well, I'm in
favor of that. When do we start? And so I made
letters and track. and he got the dining hall job
for me, and that paid just for your meals. Just for
your meals. They paid you, but you paid for your
meals. And it was a break-even? Break-even for
your board. And you did that your... Just
sophomore, junior, and senior year. All right.
Let's stay back with this freshman year. When you
got here, describe the major buildings on the
campus. What was here in 1931? Well, the most
important one was Brazell Hall. And sophomore
year, I went to Hart. Junior year, I went to
Leggett. And senior year, I went to Foster. and
faucets had been removed, and the lake had been
removed, and the old academic building, as we call
it now, was most of the classrooms. The military
science had a few outside classrooms, but the
campus was very small. They had the Aggieland Inn
at the north gate across the street from Sivisa
Hall. And there was no dormitories in that area at
all, and a few businesses at the north gate. I don't
remember how many. Was Guyon Hall the south end of
the buildings? Guyon Hall was the south end of what
we called Military Wall. And there was nothing
beyond it except faculty and staff houses? beyond
that. For every formation, three times a day,
every cadet outfit formed on military walks and
walked to the dining hall for meals. in a very
short, quick order because they entered sometime
in three different entrances to get to the dining
hall and everything in the way of salads and
drinking water and some of the items were already
on the table, and when the troops got to the table,
then the waiter provided the rest of it. And that
was much easier for me in my last two years because
the
supervision of Sabisa Hall at that time was a
retired World One Army sergeant named King. It was
about, even with my shoulder was his height, but he
was a good one. He said, since you're an athlete and
you eat on a training table, we gonna let you have
that as your responsibility. So the last two
years, All I had to do was go and get the necessary
plates for the number of athletes I had, and their
people had water and a lot of stuff already on the
table. One interesting item there, I believe it
was my senior year, the basketball squad had only
sixteen people on it, including the managers and
the trainers. And I could carry a tray with four
prepared plates on the tray. Four, eight, or
twelve. And to keep making two trips of eight, I
told them to put all eight of them, all 16 of them on
one tray, four high
and four around. And I just made one trip back to the
main dining hall. And I noticed Sergeant King kept
eyeing me pretty close. So I knew him pretty well.
So one day I visited with him. I said, Sergeant
King, have I been doing something wrong? I said,
you spent a lot of your time watching me. He says,
well, you're not doing anything wrong, but I want
to see you when you drop that first 16 plates. Did
you ever drop it? No. I made sure I didn't. But I
could go there, and at the same time the athletes
did, and it was a good assignment. So I owe a lot to
Colonel Landy. Describe what it was like to be a
fish in 1931. Well, you'd think if you ended about a
week or a month, there wasn't anybody on the campus
but fish, because they did everything. the
upperclassmen would stick their head out of the
door and all the freshmen. And the last one that got
to his door ran the errand. If it was twenty
freshmen, the first nineteen were excused, and
whether it was go to the post office or go get
cleaning or whatever was necessary. And we had one
freshman per upperclassmen room to put it in
order. And it seemed like a very tremendous chore
and an unfair thing your first year, but after your
first year you felt like you had earned your
apprenticeship. So I'm sure there's nothing like
that now. What was a normal class day like? When did
it begin and what happened during that? Eight to
twelve and one to five, there was no... But what
time did you get up? I don't remember, probably
about six, I believe we formed to go to the morning
formation in time to get to the dining hall by seven
so everybody could get to class. But there was no
night classes, there was no noon classes because
they had plenty of room, twenty of classroom
space. Let's make believe that during that day you
had an hour that was unscheduled. You had free
time. Where could a fish spend any free time? He
better be in his room studying. It's a place for
him. He can get an excuse maybe to go to the library
to study, but you had to put a note on your door.
telling you what part of the library you'll be in,
because they wanted you to take full advantage of
your study time. In fact, I lived as a junior in
Mitchell Hall with a boy that was a sophomore. His
dad was a senator, Texas senator, Nat Patton. And
he wasn't too good a student, and they asked me if I
would room with him. And I said, yes, if it'll help.
And he said, well, if you can get him to go to class
and make him study, you'll have done a good chore.
So Annette Patton and I roomed together when he was
a sophomore and I was a junior. And it was well worth
my effort, because he graduated.
Do you remember anything that today we would call
hazing that occurred during your fresh year? Yes,
it was hazing, day and night. Can you give some
examples?
Well, I don't guess they can go back and prosecute
anybody. I don't think so. But the board, or paddle
as they call it, the board was a ruling instrument.
whether you were a good freshman or a bad freshman,
or a good sophomore or a bad sophomore. They were
not above the board, too. And a lot of people went
home because of that aspect of it. I don't know what
our percentage was, but those that stayed were
glad they stayed. But it was a real rampage. Now
where would the paddling occur? In the hallway? In
the hallway, in the hallway. Very few night
sergeants would ever intercede or break it up
because they knew it was a common practice. Can you
give any examples of what we today might label good
bull? Surely you freshmen must have played some
tricks on some upperclassmen Only one time a year.
What was that? On what we called Fish Day in the
spring. Fish were sophomores, and sophomores
were fish. And that was an all-day fun thing, and
sometimes you come out worse than you went in. But
it was a fun day for everybody, and they all looked
forward to it. Were there drownouts in those days?
Yes. What kind of bomb? BABO. No, I think water is
the only thing I recall and it was somebody that was
goofing off or they didn't like or for some reason
like that and nobody was barred from from that
regardless of class. Now during your fish year you
were not working in the dining hall so you ate with
your outfit Describe the dining hall routine for a
freshman. Everybody went in together and had
campaign hats. wooden chairs so your hat could go
under the chair, and everybody was seated about
the same time. The food dishes were passed to all
the upperclassmen, and it was usually not
necessary for seconds to get the first serving all
the way around.
I do not recall any harassment at all while you were
eating. It was custom in those days that you could
not have your pie, it was known as kush of course,
you could not have your pie for 35 days. My class was
35. For 35 days you could have all the pie you
wanted, but you had to eat it under the table. For
the first 35 days? For the first. For the first 35
days. Now, had you gotten that report yet? No, I
hadn't heard. That's a new one. So, I don't know how
it went when the classes got to 50 and 60. Did you
literally sit on the floor? Yeah, sit on the floor
and sit. And hold your plate and eat? That's right.
And the tables were made with three wooden boards
and a cloth over it, but they were not waterproof.
and it was a normal just a thing to pour water on the
table once freshmen got under there to eat their
pie but they could have all the pie they wanted go
meal hound it get it from other tables and go under
there and share share like with the number it was
under there and the time we got through
everybody's going to class but we had enough time
to get to class now as you recall Did you always get
as much to eat as you wanted? Yeah. Everybody
gained weight. What were your favorite varieties
of A&M dining hall food? What did you like best in
the dining hall? Oh, I don't recall. All the meals
were very nourishable, particularly when they
had roast or steak or something like that and a
couple of vegetables and a drink. So I don't
remember. We ate what they put out, and everybody
gained weight. Was there any food that you ate here
for the first time, anything new? I don't think so.
Because I'm assuming there wasn't any pizza and
there wasn't any Mexican food and there wasn't any
Chinese. No, no, that was before that time. And you
might have had some fresh vegetables at home in the
garden that you wouldn't get on the table, but it
was a tremendous responsibility to feed them. Mr.
Duncan lived across the hall, across the side
street from the rear west corner of Sabeza Hall.
There was a building there that the YMCA widow also
lived in. Mrs. Cashin? Mrs. Cashin was there for
quite some time. And they all lived over there, but
the family came across the street and they ate in a
special dining room of their own.
and did it, I guess, 21 times a week if they wanted to
eat. And you could not take food out of a dining
hall. Did you students ever violate that rule?
Yes, because we were responsible for the first
revelry that ever came in the campus. One of our
class members picked the dog up after being hit by a
car. at what's now the East Gate. It was just a dirt
road. They'd been to Houston and hitchhiking at
home, and somebody had run over this dog, and she
was in the ditch injured. So they brought her to the
dormitory, and we had a couple of senior vet
students, and they took care of the dog. How old was
that dog then? I would say she's probably a year
old, very young dog. They bandaged her leg and got
her back to normal. Several classes still claim
the first Reveille, but I know who the first
Reveille is responsible for. She came same time we
did, and only just a few weeks after we did.
Describe her in terms of color and size. just about
the exact image of the bronze statue in the Cadet
Center, because that was taken from a picture, one
of the first pictures ever made of her with a little
blanket made for her purpose.
And the four classes that were in school at the time
she was here first wanted to make that monument to
go in there.
four, I believe. One class declined, so we got 36,
37, 38, and 39.
Anyway, four classes together and put that thing
together and took up a donation from class after we
graduated, of course. And she was certainly not a
purebred Oh, no. But the bronze image is very, very
good of her because of the color of her feet, and the
body features, and the way she held her tail. One
ear was higher than the other, and the discoveries
did a wonderful job. Did, when the dog was first in
the dormitory, were there any times when Doug was
almost forced out by his... No, not in the
dormitory. There was a little problem in the
dining hall until Sergeant King agreed that if
everybody thought enough of her that she ought to
eat in the dining hall, she'd come and go as she
wished.